Iran has condemned a suspected Israeli
air strike on the Syrian Capitol
Damascus which it says killed five
members of the paramilitary
Revolutionary guards group Iran's
President says tyan will not leave the
attack unanswered Regional tensions have
been escalating as Israel continues its
war against Hamas following the October
7th terrorist
attacks this is all that remains of a
four-story house in his neighborhood in
the Syrian
[Music]
Capital but the attack which apparently
targeted the building also damaged
several cars and other nearby
[Music]
property at around 10:30 we heard the
sounds of three consecutive explosions
they targeted the building here behind
us we were
shocked what was the situation in your
home Everything Is Broken
the fence of the building flew over and
landed in our
kitchen thank God there was no one there
of course all glass is broken the fridge
was damaged the wood was
damaged as Rescuers have been trying to
find survivors under the rubble Iran's
revolutionary guards said several
members of the paramilitary group were
among the dead Tran blamed Israel for
the strike and threatened to respond
Iran has been a close Ally of Syria's
president Bashar al-assad as well as the
militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon it
also supports Hamas which carried out
the October 7th terrorist attack on
Israel Israel has not claimed
responsibility for the strike in
Damascus it comes just days after the
Revolutionary guards claimed it hit what
it called an Israeli spy headquarters in
Northern Iraq
well for more we can speak to gido
Steinberg he is a Middle East Analyst at
the German Institute for international
and security Affairs welcome to DW first
of all can you explain to us why members
of Iran's revolutionary guard were in
Syria what exactly were they doing
there the guards have been in Syria um
at least since 2011 and they have
assisted the Syrian government in its
fight first against the protests uh and
then against the Insurgency in the
country ever since uh this Civil War has
virtually ended they are still there
they uh they have about a couple of
hundred uh Personnel in the country they
advise the Syrian military and the
Syrian um and the Syrian intelligence
services and they have tried to build uh
what they call a second front in Syria
uh from which to confront
Israel now as we've been reporting Iran
says Israel uh was to blame for this
strike is it likely that indeed Israeli
forces were responsible for this killing
of Iranian revolutionary guards in
Damascus I personally am and am
convinced that the Israelis are
responsible um the Israelis have
attacked the Iranian and uh Iranians
supported militia militia Targets in
Syria and sometimes even in Iraq since
2017 uh they have uh attacked between a
th000 and 2,000 times ever since and
they have already killed quite a number
of high ranking irgc Personnel so there
is no doubt that the Israelis are Al
also responsible uh in this
case and in this particular case how big
of a blow do you believe that this
particular strike on these particular
individuals is for
Iran well this is quite a blow Ju Just
like uh many other attacks in the past
the Israelis have attacked high ranking
Personnel of uh the Iranian
revolutionary guards in this case uh it
seems as if they have um as if they have
killed
the head of the irgc intelligence
service head for Syria that's one of the
high ranker highest ranking um Iranians
in the country he's probably a brigadier
general that's a major blow to the
Iranians all right so seeing that this
was quite a highlevel uh attack on very
important members of the Revolutionary
guards what do you think is going to
happen next can we expect retaliatory
strikes from Iran or maybe even Syria
against Israel
directly well not Syria Syria is not not
able to attack uh Israel and uh I have
as I said ever since
2017 uh the the Israelis have attacked
Iranian and Iranian Allied Targets in in
Syria we have seen some retaliation by
the Iranians but by and large ever since
the Iranians have not not found any
adequate measures uh to retaliate
against these strikes I think the the
Iranians will now think very hard
whether they might be able to Target uh
Israel with missiles with drones perhap
perhaps from Syria but the overall U the
overall situation in the Middle East
will not change simply because the
Iranians have so many Israeli attacks to
retaliate for um and they are looking
for every opportunity to to hit Israeli
Targets in the Middle East and possibly
even
abroad and to what extent is this
particular incident linked to the
ongoing war between Israel and Hamas and
also to the cross border uh hostilities
in the north between Israel and
Hezbollah well this incident is mainly
linked by by The Coincidence um the
Israelis there is a certain continu
continuity to Israeli air strikes
against Iranian uh Targets in Syria at
the same time we do see the Iranians
stepping up attacks against Israeli
American and other targets but mainly by
proxy for example by letting hisbah hit
the Israeli North uh I think this will
continue but there is also the
possibility that the Iranians will get
more directly involved in attacks
against Israeli and other Western
targets that was G Steinberg from the
German Institute for international and
security Affairs thank you so much for
your
analysis